So in the previous video, we started
talking about Python dictionaries.
So let's continue on and look at
some other features of dictionaries.
Now, on the screen,
I've got the code from the last video.
And you saw that we used the .get
to retrieve the dictionary.
And we actually use the in key word
to actually test to see whether our.
A key that we'll actually type
was actually in the dictionary.
So what I'm gonna do is
just comment this code out,
cuz I wanted to show you something else
that I didn't do in the previous video.
Comment that out.
And what I'm going to do here is
just show you an alternative way.
In the previous video, we talked about,
showed you how to type description.
Equals fruit.get [INAUDIBLE] and
you can see that on the screen there.
But you can also add a default value
to return if a key doesn't exist.
So we can do this.
We don't have a [INAUDIBLE]
key like so
And we'll do a print description.
And I'll just comment
these last two lines out,
cuz they're part of the else
that I commented out.
So now if I run that, enter a fruit.
Apple, good for making cider.
Lemon, If I type something like a peach,
we don't have a peach.
So you can see what's happening there.
I'll just move this over.
So if what we've typed,
which is stored in the dict_key
variable does exist in our dictionary.
It's going to print that out on
line 13 This is the default value.
We don't have A plus whatever
was typed if it doesn't exist.
So you can see there's two different
ways of really achieving the same thing.
Well I guess the question you're probably
asking about now is which one one should
you use, and
before actually getting into day time and
answering that it's worth pointing
out that the second example,
the one that I've now commented out And
that was really a little bit contrived
in order to produce the same
result as the first one.
So in this particular case,
for what we're doing here,
it probably makes sense to do what
I've got on the screen now and
just use the default value, because
we're not actually doing anything with
that dictionary key that we're typing in,
other than printing it out.
But if you're gonna test
the return value of description
to see if it contained the default and
use that to take some action.
You know if the key doesn't
exist in other words and
you probably be better
off using the in keyword.
Using the sudden method
that is coming to that.
And checking that you key's in the
dictionary first, so it really depends on
the functionality you're implementing
as to which method you'd use.
The other thing to point out is there
actually is a has_key method that used,
that can be used to check
if it's in the dictionary,
so you can do something like this.
Fruit.has_key and
dict_key for argument's sake.
But has_key is a Python 2 method, and
it's not implemented in Python 3, so
it's actually deprecated.
That's why you saw me,
when I was typing has_key, IntelliSense
wasn't coming up and using that.
So if you happen to See, has_key.
In any old Python code, you can
replace that with this code in here.
So fruit.has_key can be
equivalent to dict_key in fruit.
That would be the Python 3 syntax
you'd want to use instead.
So I'm just going to
comment this out again.
Go back to the original changes that
we had before the start of the video.
Like so.
So moving on now.
It's probably not going to surprise you to
learn you can also iterate over the keys
of a dictionary in the usual authentic
way, so we could do something like this.
And you've used I'd say the for keyword
quite a few times, for snack in fruit.
Print fruit snack.
So we could do that.
What we'll do is we'll just comment
this whole [INAUDIBLE] we put now.
On the program again, and
you can see we've got through, and
it's actually listed out all
the values automatically for us.
And we can also access
the values as an iterable.
And I'm not sure whether you've noticed,
but every time we run this, if we run this
again, noticing the output that's coming
through in here, it's changing each time.
The actual order itself
is changing each time.
You see that?
So the point we're making here.
There's no guarantee that the list is
always going to appear in the same
order in a dictionary.
In other words,
just because we enter orange first
when we created the dictionary.
In this case we used apple,
doesn't mean it's going to be the first
item in the list so to speak.
So the key is hashed and you may find
dictionaries refer Refered to as hashes,
and we'll be looking at hash
functions later in the course.
But they're basically a one way function.
So, if we use the same hash function on
the key apple you always get the same has,
but trying to work out what key
was used to produce that has
can take a powerful computer months.
So, hash functions are used for example
in cryptography and calculating sums.
You may have done this before.
If you've downloaded files from
a reputable source on the internet,
you may have seen MD5 check
sum's being referenced.
They're use to check that the file
hasn't been tampered with in any way.
In other words, the file that they've
created is Is got a unique MD5 checksum.
And they then show you that MD5 checksum.
So when you download on your computer
you can actually product that same MD5
checksum by running a command to guarantee
that the file hasn't been modified.
A hash would also have a use to
store password in the database.
You wouldn't store a password for
example as plaintext.
You'd use a hash which could
be really useful as well.
So it can be helpful to think of a
dictionary as being created with a load of
free slots, and in to those slots our
data actually goes, is actually stored.
Now the key is hashed and
the hashed spelling is used
to determine which Is used.
Because we're creating the dictionary
every time we run the program in
this case.
The slots are allocating different or
allocated differently.
So that the algorithms
are in different orders.
So Python doesn't randomly
move things around though.
As you can see from this next example.
We're going to print this
out a number of times.
So let's just leave all that out,
just leave the print in there.
So we're doing something like for
i in range 10, for snack in food.
You can probably guess
what we're doing here.
We're going to run the example
ten times now just to see
whether we get a different add value or
value From the dictionary, print, snack
plus is, plus fruit snack, and
we're just going to print a separator
between each iteration, times 40.
So now, if you run that,
You'll notice that in this case,
they're now the same each time.
So each time you're going through the list
while we're running it, it's identical for
the 10 times that we've gone
through this full loop.
And going through a dictionary,
we got the same results.
19 of orange, apple, grape, lime, lemon,
if we run that program again We get lime,
lemon, orange, apple, grape this time.
So in other words,
it's the time in the dictionary is created
that those start to arbitrarily created,
and the [INAUDIBLE] is sort of putting
that in a particular area of memory.
So it's going to be the same for that run,
for that program run as you saw Now,
that will only be the case
until we modify the dictionary.
So if we ever delete items,
anything can happen to the ordering.
So it's not really
something you can rely on.
You kind of assume that adding a
particular item is going to then make that
item appear in a certain place
when you're printing it out or
when you're through that list.
Now there's an ordered dictionary in the
collections library which we'll be looking
at later, if you need to do such a thing.
If you do actually want to have
a particular order or to use things
a dictionary in an ordered manner,
but by default this isn't included.
We'll be looking at that when we cover
path and library later in the course.
Keep in mind if you do use that
performance would not be as good because
there's more work for Python to actually
do to keep things in a orderly fashion.
Now one reason ordering may be important
It would be coming to display results for
a human to read.
So in that case rather than loosing
performance while you're adding and
deleting from the dictionary it
probably could make sense, and
probably would depending on
the application to not be concerned with
the ordering until the time
comes to display the data.
So in other words you don't try and
do any ordering while
the dictionary is being created.
The only time you order it would be at the
stage where you want to print it out or
process it in that particular order.
So what we could do at that point is
create a list from the dictionary keys,
sort the list, and iterate over
the list to display the results.
Now that sounds like a lot of steps, but
this is it's really simple
to do as we see here.
So let's go through and
see just how easy those steps are.
So we're gonna start with our order keys.
So order [INAUDIBLE] keys
equals list [INAUDIBLE] .keys.
Then we're going to sort them.
So we've got the list of keys first from
the dictionary then we're going to do
keys.sort and
we're going to do [INAUDIBLE]
in ordered keys directly that's with
the ordered key in ordered keys.
Print.
If as fruit.
If like so.
So if you run that.
We've now got them in the same order.
And every time we run the program we
should get the same result as you can
see in the screen there because we
are specifically going through that sort
process.
So fruit.keys that returns a list of
all the keys just to confirm that.
It's not really the type or
kind of list that we're used to.
And as such,
it doesn't have a sort command.
So, that's why we had
to use the list method.
To create that list.
Because it takes a sequence and
produces a list from it.
So, at that point, we've then got a list
that we're storing in order_keys.
Then we're using the standard .sort.
Which we've seen before.
And then finally, we're iterating through
the list of then ordered keys and
printing out the corresponding
entry in the dictionary.
To print it out in alphabetical order.
Now the code's been written on
the screen to show what's going on but
you'd normally find that the list
is sorted as it's created.
And that can save you one line of code.
So you could have actually
done these two lines out.
Just so they're in there for reverence
we do ordered underscore keys equals
sorted List(fruit.keys)),
which will achieve the equivalent thing,
but with one less line of code.
As you can see,
it's still sorting things alphabetically.
If you're not sure why we used the sort
method in the first example, But
had to call this sorted
function in a second.
Go back and check out section seven,
introduction to lists,
where we go through that in detail.
Moving on, finally we can simplify that
even further if we don't need the list
object from anything else, other than
to iterate [INAUDIBLE] in other words,
if you just Printing something out and
you're not going to be using this variable
ordered keys after, you can do that all in
one line, so we can, again we'll that out.
Making it something like for f in sorted
fruit.keys print(f + "- " + fruit[f]).
Too many brackets there.
All right, so if we run that,
then again we get the same result.
So you can see we become
quite concise in Python
really depending in this case whether
we're using that variable ordered_keys.
At any other point in the program.
If you want, you can see it
became really quite intuitive and
very fast to do what we want it to do.
And really any two lines of
code including the printout.
So, just to confirm fruit.keys
doesn't return a regular list.
In this case, using the sorter function,
it does behave like a sequence.
And as such, we can then pass
it to the sorter function.
Because that as input wants a sequence and
that's why that's actually working and
that also explains why we had to
create a list from this fruit dot keys
output in the first two examples.
And finally, if you wanted to write
Over the keys in a dictionary.
You don't actually need
to use the keys with it.
We're using it here because we want to
sort the keys first before we process it
any further.
So, if you're not sorting.
Basically, that line
there will be done with.
Our for f in fruit.
We can assign apple.
And you can now that's now not
sorted in alphabetical order
because we've removed the sorted command.
So that's, again, why we've added that.
The .keys need it if we're gonna
be using the sort order function
we need to make sure that we use
.keys to return a sequence so
that can then sort it
into the correct order.
Now, we looked at the keys method to
obtain a list of the dictionary keys as
you can see there on screen.
You can probably guess that we can get
a list of values by using, you guessed it.
The values command.
So we can do something like, again.
For val in fruit.values.
That's right.
Print val, we can run that.
And that's instead giving us the key.
It gives us the value for
each of the items in the But
it's less efficient than using
the keys to produce the same results.
So keep that in mind that it's better
to use the keys wherever possible.
And use these references in here when
you're out putting display It's not really
as optimized and thus it's less efficient.
Sufficient.
And started doing something like this.
So we'll just put a separator in there.
Four key in fruit is gonna
be much more efficient.
So print fruit key like so.
Running that.
The second method there
is far more efficient.
And we've looked at keys and values now,
both of those return list like objects.
And just as a recap.
print, fruit.keys and print fruit.
[INAUDIBLE] I can see that
both return list like objects, so the keys
method is returning a dict keys object.
And values returns a dict values object,
and both of these are what's called a View
objects and if the underlying dictionary
changes, then they will as well.
So the best way to see how that
works is to show some example code.
We can assign the dictionary keys to
a variable to monitor dictionary and
check what happens to the variable.
So coming back here,
we'll close down the run window.
And we'll create a variable,
fruit underscore keys.
It's fruit dot keys.
Now print fruit dot keys or
fruit underscore keys, I should say.
And I'll just delete these others now.
So we've got that, and
then we could do a fruit, [SOUND]
tomato, [SOUND]
equals not nice with ice cream, print
Fruit bring that we haven't
updated Fruit keys.
We haven't made another call
now to the keys method.
Run that.
I'm going to end this video here.
In the next video we're going to
continue our discussion of dictionaries